---
layout: post
title: Writing about Context, Content in Clear Writing/Speaking
date: 2026-06-18
categories: opinion
---

Writing about context, Content applied in Clear Writing/Speaking

# 1. Context and Content

- Content: the word you put on the page.

- Context: how the readers understand the word.

# 2. Know your reader

## 2.1. Personas

- The best personas are based on research, not guesswork.

- For example: Our reader is Marcus, the owner/manager of a pizza takeaway in the suburbs that employs two other people. Business is steady, but recently cash flow has been a little tight. Marcus is a 30-something father of two. He wants to know how the new tax regulations for part-time workers will affect his business, and what changes he might need to make.

## 2.2. What does your reader want or need?

- When [A], I need to [B] so I can [C].

- Where A is the reader’s situation, B is the task they need to do, and C is the goal they want to achieve.

## 2.3. What does your reader know?

1. What they already know ?

2. What do I want them to learn from my writing ?

3. How can I use what they already know -> explain what things I want to say ?

## 2.4. How does your reader feels ?

1. **Interested in your message** -> be enthusiasm and curiousity.

2. **Neutral** -> do not interested, only need your message to help them complete the a task -> force to read but reluctant and impatient about it.

3. **Negative** -> confused, doubtful and sceptical, do not trust you to speak.

## 2.5. Research your reader

- Talk to them: only collect facts, do not assumption everything: see, hear, happened.

- Talk to experience: teacher, coacher -> give their observations.

- Reading in digital discussions: Threads, Reddit, Linkedin -> conversations of people around the subject.

# 3. Planning Docs

1. **Read**

2. **Understand:** if you don't get your message across, it's game over.

3. **Remember**: make reader learn and remember your message once they've read it.

4. **Think and feel**: They have more receptive about your ideas.

5. **Act**: persuade the reader to act on your message.

## 3.1. Write one-pager doc

- Only 1 page is enough

- Write a mission: your need, reason.

## 3.2. Flow of read of users.

- Purporse.

- Quick summary: in case people only read this far.

- The current system.

- The proposed solution and reason why to choose.

- The detailed rules and explainations.

- How they help them.

- Action and contact points.

## 3.3. How wide and how deep ?

- Docs: need both wide and deep

- Your view: you have enthusiasm you want to get across.

- Reader view: they have own priorities and their time, their attention is limited.

## 3.4. Some poplular error

- **Too many aims:** only 1 aim at the same time is enough.

- **Kitchen sink syndrome:** everything in once kitchen.

    - Priority the section based on weight of importance.

    - Make sure anyone feels existed and make their own contribution: do not make all things in the same doc.

    - If you overload it, the reader will skim-read or just stop reading altogether.

- To counter the problem of **writing by committee**: try to get other people involved before the hands-on writing.

References: [Why Writing by Committee Is Hard and How to Make It Easier](https://medium.com/@parkerdtim/why-writing-by-committee-is-hard-and-how-to-make-it-easier-316d2d40a27c)

## 3.5. Mind map

- Topic.

- Subtopic.

- Relationship between node: needs, leads to, happens with.