---
layout: post
title: Beyond Coding - How to get promote as Software Engineer
date: 2026-06-07
categories: opinion
---

I am writing about Beyond Coding: How to get promote as Software Engineer

# 1. The INTERVIEW playbook  

- Best deal: Have a big deal project: the most important.

- Propose system design for new project: high-level first, spike doc with trade-offs, zoom out details later.

- Master DSA.

- Prepare stories link to behaviour interview.

- Prepare 50% from last questions of the company + 20% be a nice guy + 10% do not say stupid things.

# 2. The PROMOTION playbook  

- Best deal: Be in right projects, be active when meetings and collaborations -> more important than code.

- Find way to show up for work with other team for visibility and impact.

- Raise more ideas in meeting.

- Sell your project with other teams.

- Join the "cool kids" team: receive more impactful project.

- Out of the "lazy team", move to "building team".

# 3. The MANAGER DEAL playbook  

- Rule: zero-sum game in Big Tech with Manager, manager is people to judge you.

- Best deal: solve the manager/team win problem, do not come with problem - come with solution.

- Ask manager about how they expect and need about me to promote next steps -> Show that you have value out of other colleagues, remember rule 10%.

- Manager only work: ensure team KPIs, multiply the team wins.

# 4. The PRODUCTIVE ENGINEER playbook  

- Best deal: Minimize context switching.

- Do not focus more on "busyness" -> focus on "main goals" that impact value.

- A bug reported, quick call, ad-hocs support -> you can say you will support it tommorrow, or sometime out of your focus work.

# 5. The TOP PERFORMER playbook

- Best deal: In big tech, 10x engineer not like 10x in start-up "hero", 10x engineer is produce process that make others's life work easier.

- Multiply team efforts, system efforts, not only your project.

# 6. The AI ARCHITECT playbook  

- Best deal: Be AI Engineer (understand input, verify output), not a vibe-coder.

# 7. The STOCK COMPENSATION playbook

- Best deal: save money for stock, buy when needed.
