---
layout: post
title: Explore and understand woman
date: 2026-06-07
categories: opinion
---

I explore something about woman to understand, so that I can answer the question about my desires in relationship ?

# 1. Question 1: Why man trying to make money, but not make love ?

- Money is needs.

- Woman is only wants, and they have not found women that they desires enough to all in.

# 2. Question 2. What is Attraction is different between 2 genders ?

- Biology: women can be get pregnant and feed childen, and men have desires to make women pregnants.

- Beauty: Men want a women that (1) healthy, (2) old enough to be sexually mature, (3) yet still young so they lived long enough to give birth and raise their offspring -> Women need to find man can support and take care of women to give birth child.

- Male characteristic: women attracts in male character that do not have in femine characters.

- Vulnerability: Because vulnerability, so that they want a male that they can vulnerability into them -> (1) he is born male and (2) he is less vulnerable than females.

- Visibility: (1) she is born female and (2) she has a beautiful body

- Acceptability: they want to hear how a male really feels about them, how much he cares about them, how good they make him feel, how much he really loves them.

# 3. Question 3: What is Socialization is different between 2 genders ?

- Social claims: Females must be earned, male’s achievements are being associated with getting girls.

- The male should feel lucky (1) as if the female did him a favor by giving him the sex that only he wants, but she did not enjoy as much, (2) as if he really was unworthy of her, and (3) that his own actions had nothing to do with getting laid.

- Horny feeling: have strong desires to horny, but do not want other see them as sluts, she really enjoy this feeling in the bed.

- Women needs a man care for them: confidence, charm and responsibility.

# 4.  Question 4: What is Seduction is different between 2 genders ?

- The best way to actually get girls is to understand what women want (not what socialization leads us to belive they want)

- Men like women: body of women.

- Secret: Women like men: male who is attracted to them, and what men’s behaviors can offer them

- Male with: confidence, charm, and responsibility.

# 5. What is Confidence, Dominant, Self-esteem, Shameless ?

- Confidence: belive you can do the uncertain.

- Dominant: male > women in relationship (lead other)

- Ego: think about yourself, not sacrifice for others -> understand can not believe others.

- Self-esteem: key value, know your value in the organization, which you can provide -> trust yourself is self-esteem, do not depend to other-esteem.

- Self-esteem is the root start to confidence. Woman want to see the confidence of the man, not internalize.

- Shameless: feeling not good -> because let other opinions more than your own opinion.

# 6. What is Unyielding (Kiên định) ?

- About sex, woman like the man show that he is facinated the sex by attractions of herself.

- Women want to see man is incomplete human -> want to change him.

# 7. What is Positive Thinking & Confidence ?

- Positive Expectation: when you interact with them.

- Negative Expectation: overreact.

- **Living in the moment:** You have to be rational and **see things for what they really are**, see **what woman currently do now**, not predict what they think/feel ? 

- For anything happened to you, you can handle it -> what confidence truly are.

- Always show positive about anything: others will not doubt about you.

# 8. What is Ambitious about women ?

- Ambitious with women: high-quality girl

- If you are not getting the women you want, it is because your mindset and its resulting manners make you unattractive.

- If you need more time and experience to be better with women, then be honest with yourself and admit it, but make sure you get the practice you need with high-quality women.

# 9. What is Inadequate in love ?

- Only way: That requires time spent directly with them, not your work or values only.

- Remove mindset: good-manners with your mother.

- Tolerance of uncertainty, which is what confidence is all about.

# 10. Confidence to living the life that you want ?

- Living your life that you want, not your mother want.

# 11. What is charming ?

- Spreading positive feelings -> make her feel value.

- Become popular: attract by many womens, that choose her -> make her feel value.

- Talk her about what she can fulfill for you -> make her feel value.

- Caring -> care deeply about her, make herself feel value.

- Do not disapointed mindset: you need her, she will not love you anymore.

- Redundant girl opportunities: in case you make her show she has value for you.

# 12. What is responsibility ?

- The ability to make things happen.To lead, decide, advance, isolate, persist, and attempt with women, and never rationalize around them.

- Women: talk about what happened to them.

- Lead: Women do not call first -> Everything need start from a man: plan dates, take a girl, reduces the pressure from social condition.

- Decide: make decision.

- Advance: Women do not want to make any moves, they want man to make all the moves.

- Resistance: you still have work to do, she have not "ưng" you.

- Isolate: 2 of you can privacy together, no ones can bother two of yous, and less pressure for a women to become a "good girl" -> show her true self. Go with 2 people, allow you to lead her.

- Persist: take time to feel the changes around her in a period of time -> not too give up early.

- Rejection: if they reject spend more time more than friends -> should ask soon for “Am I bothering you?” or “Do you have a boyfriend?” -> show your intentions with her -> Confidence to show intentions with her soon.

- Attempt: try much time to understand yourself.

- Rationalize

- Lying: women lying a lot, say they are busy stress or something -> liars.

# 13. How to communicate/message to woman ?

- Not focus to "What need to talk to woman" -> focus to "How to talk with them?"

- How to make women feels you are interested in her + the topic show that women are valued -> even the story is non-sense.

- Do not small talk about weather -> stranger.

- Do not talk about worst problems of the day -> friend.

- Talk about what make women feel good about themselves.

# 14. How to be direct + think out loud ?

- Focus + assertiveness: know what you want, using "I want" -> because women is in-direct, man show assertiveness make him contrast and confidence.

- Skill: learning to think out loud -> visualize it.

- Can show the not good for them -> enjoy to improve it.

# 15. How to flirt with women ?

- Show directly: you interested in the women sexually, not become friends.

- Show them that they are interested in them first, if they know -> you can confident do what you want for her.

- Master: ability to show up romantic and sexual overtures without saying anything -> help she carry bag, protect her, caring something -> hint that you care her more than friends.

- Only talk to her for what she feel she feels that she is valued.

- Women already realize this fact, as they fix themselves up to show what men want to see by dying their hair, getting hair extensions, applying
makeup, wearing fake fingernails, and wearing high heels.

- Center: make the topic around her.

- Compare: Although most women are very much alike and tend to have lots of basic interests and habits in common, like shopping, shoes, sleeping, talking about relationships, and analyzing other people -> show her the reason why he interested in her -> make you selective.

- Compliment: let a woman know how attractive she is, what you like about her, and what is special about her.

- Friendly: show that you are harmless to her.

- Respect: Treat other people as you would like them to treat you.

- Rapport: discover commonalities: similar interests, hobbies, and experiences and common friends, beliefs, values, and ways of thinking.

# 16. What is body language ?

- Expanding: read a image or signal -> show what feeling she is.

- Spontaneous: if you love you do for here -> do not pre-planning.

- Proud

- Curious

- Gaze

- Touch

- Smell

- Protective: care until the end.

- Cool: calm when handling things.

# 17. What is style ?

- Body.

- Fashion what he wear.

# 18. The method ?

- How to find, meet, and seduce the most attractive women in the world.

# 19. The location ?

- Option 1: opportunity meet new womens.

- Option 2: Create your own opportunities.

- 2 places meet more women: club or park, other: yoga classes, dance lessons, gym.

# 20. The woman ?

- The girl that you really want.

- Personality.

# 21. The approach

- First impression: sense who people are.

- Full attention: women really want attention to them.

- Real reason: to access her.

- Audacity: peak action extraordinary -> highest form of confidence.

- Focus on her reaction: tell you that she has boy friend, continue flirting with you, silent -> make you adjust the message.

- Formality: make her feel comfortable first -> ask her number -> spend more time together -> must make her feel comfortable to do anything -> make next step while make sure comfortable.

# 22. The number

- If you make her feel comfortable.

- If you want to show that you are interested in her.

-> If she do not give you the number, maybe something wrong -> intention to show that you want to love you.

## 23. The call

- When you chat + phone with you.

- Goal to make her feel comfortable when talk with you.

## 24. The date

- A female he want.

- A male who want her.

- After first date: discover another interest for second date.

- A plan: timing + drinking.

## 25. The kiss

- Very comfortale + trusts: the first kiss.

## 26. The sex

- Fantasy: very high mood.

## 27. The relationship

- Monogamy

- Long-term

