---
layout: post
title: Framework Thinking - SDE Interview
date: 2025-12-13
categories: pinned-docs
---

Here is framework thinking for SDE Interview.

# 1. Computer Science

1. What is it ?

2. Apply in practice.

# 2. Coding Interview

1. Understand the problem

2. Clarify constraints, asks 4 - 5 questions including edge cases.

3. Explore examples.

4. Brainstorm 2 - 3 solutions, please explain the thinking process for each solutions.

5. Dry run with examples to explain ideas of each solutions, code it easy to understand with Python and in a function (e.g. function Solution).

6. Implement solutions.

7. Dry run testcases.

# 3. System Design

1. Understand the problem

2. Identify functional requirements / non-functional requirements (Availability, Scalability, Performance).

3. Estimate capacity: QPS, Storage => Ask for Daily active user, Action per user, How long you store data

4. Data Models & Relationship (use-a, has-a, is-a) & API Design.

5. High-level for Functional Requirements.

6. Data Flow

7. Bottlenecks

   | Constraint           | Typical Bottleneck            | How to Spot                           |
   | -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
   | **QPS / Throughput** | DB writes, queues             | Estimate expected QPS vs max capacity |
   | **Latency**          | Synchronous I/O, API chaining | Count service hops, network calls     |
   | **Availability**     | Single point failures         | Check if component can fail alone     |
   | **Storage / Growth** | DB size, partitioning         | Estimate data scale over time         |

8. Scaling Patterns: Scaling reads, scaling writes, real-time updates,...

9. Action Plan: Mobile Team, FE Team, Backend Team,...

# 4. Low Level Design

## 4.1. Design

1. Clarify the requirements.

2. Choose the entities.

3. Define fields and methods for entities.

4. Define relationship functions: use-a, has-a, is-a.

5. Define central class service.

## 4.2. Implementation

1. Follow SOLID, Coding Patterns.

2. Follow Design Patterns.

3. Handle concurrency.

4. Handle edge cases, exceptions.

## 4.3. How to write a class for function ?

1. Clarity: understand the thinking process.

2. Intent: have intent when and why to use it.

3. Single responsibility: Each class takes 1 responsibility to do.

## 4.4. How to decide the pattern ?

1. Creational Patterns:

- How the object are created using singleton or clone ?

2. Structural Pattern:

- How this system is adapt to new larger system ?

3. Behavior Pattern:

- How each components interact with others ?

# 5. Behaviour Interview

1. Read the full questions

2. What is core intention: Problem-solving (Internal), Teamwork & Collaboration & Conflict Resolution (External)

3. Situation: your team, what is project, why we have this project ?

4. Task: Scope of your task, not your team.

5. Action: Step 1 → Step 2 → Step 3 + Why, show your thinking process.

6. Result: Result metrics, Collaboration, Lesson Learn => Trick: Show the keyword + Prove from action.

7. Follow-up questions ?

a. Drill-Down Questions (Testing Depth)

- **How to answer:** Be specific

b. Self-Reflection Questions (Testing Growth Mindset)

- **How to answer:**  Be humble, honest, and constructive.

c. Scope & Contribution Questions (Testing Ownership)

- **How to answer:** Be honest and precise.

d. Challenging Questions (Testing Resilience & Professionalism)

- **How to answer:** Stay calm and professional. Don't get defensive, focus on share goals, not personal drama.
