---
layout: post
title: Framework Engineering - Behaviour Interview
date: 2025-12-16
categories: pinned-docs
---

Here is solutions for Framework Engineering - Behaviour Interview.

# 1. Behaviour Interview

1.  Tell me about the most difficult project ⇒ Tracking Hub System

2.  Tell me about the failures in your work **→ Rush testing, do not parse data when consume Kafka, and restart services.**

3.  Tell me about a time when you had a conflict with a colleague → Hard code prompt in scan-everything service or using sql database

4.  Tell me about a time when you had a disagreement with a colleague or manager → Forward to Appsflyer and sync to other platforms, my manager say about cost but I am convince him for reusability and meet the testing deadline and operation

5.  Tell me time you get touch feedback ⇒ Tool onelink difficult to use

6.  Tell me time where you miss deadline → Estimate wrong time, testing late ⇒ Do not meet time to go live, need to priority the main feature.

7.  Tell me about a time when you took on something outside of your area of responsibility **⇒** Boilerplate template for team

8.  What’s your most recent innovation? ⇒ \*\*\*\*Scan Everything Hackathon

9.  Describe a time when you sacrificed short-term goals for long-term success ⇒ \*\*\*\*Refactor code.

10. Tell me about a time you had to quickly adjust your work priorities to meet changing demands. → Tet holiday, user can not access mini app due to leak memory in Redis, fix it first.

11. Tell me about a time when you had a complex problem that required a lot of in-depth analysis **→ Dive deep tracking Onelink.**

12. Describe a situation where you made an important business decision without consulting your manager → When high peak campaign, the Redis is crash and I decide to change it to memcaching to prevent it point to database.

13. Describe a time you identified inefficiency and took ownership to fix it. **→ Consolidate 3 tools of mini app.**

14. Describe a time you make decision without have enough data → Do not have enough data to know whether the traffic users or bot.

15. Describe a project you delivered under tight deadlines. **→ Scan QR with miss universe tracking campaign.**

16. Describe a time you had to communicate complex findings to non-technical stakeholders → **Educate users to use onelink tools**

17. Could you tell me about a time where you were working on a project where you were working with another person. Over time, that person lessened their involvement in the project and you had to take on more responsibility **→ A frontend member is assigned to another urgent task, I do both frontend and backend.**

18. Tell me about an interesting metric that you designed to identify and eventually improve something **→ top K mini app used in Zalopay, so that we can cache in local resource when build mobile native app before submitting to store.**
