---
layout: post
title: Framework Thinking - System Design Pillars - Template
date: 2026-01-05
categories: cloud-solution
---

Here is solutions for template for dive deep system design.

Note: Dive deep for each goals to master.

# 1. Operation in System Design

1.  Team scope and shared goal (focus cái này)
    - Team goals and alignment services.
    - Shared goals
    - Understand why the resource are used, process and its responsible and performance.
2.  Prepare metrics
    - Add metrics, logs, tracing for services.
    - Measure the KPIs of the services.
3.  Present dashboards
    - How to view metrics in tools.
    - Draw dashboard for stakeholders: client, business, developers, operations.
4.  Feedback loops
    - Learn from failures to enhance the metrics and KPIs.

# 2. Security in System Design

1.  Authenticate & Authorization
    - Who and What they can access.
2.  Detection
    - How to know before this happens ?
    - Predict and pattern-focused.
3.  Protect infrastructure
    - Network.
    - Database.
    - Caching.
    - Server.
    - Physical protection.
    - Because infrastructure always the bottleneck.
4.  Protect data
    - Encrypt/Decrypt data.
    - Backup data.
    - Versioning data.
5.  Learn from unexpected incidents
    - Write docs for unexpected incident happened.
    - Apply RCAs to understand it deeply.
6.  Human process
    - Training humans in the process.
    - Sometime they allow network without the right reasons.

# 3. Reliability

1.  Accuracy
    - How the accuracy actually are in the service.
2.  Failures
    - How to handle when exception flow happened.
3.  Change management
    - How to change might impact the system ?
4.  Next-step flow management
    - How to predict the next step of the system ?
    - Higher level for change management.

# 4. Scalability

1.  Latency
    - Average time to complete 1 requests.
2.  Throughput
    - How it handle 10k rps.
3.  Optimize multi-steps
    - Architecture architecture: flow.
    - Service call service
    - Network.
    - Database.
    - Compute.
    - CDN.

# 5. Cost optimization

1.  Cost Calculator
    - Awareness the cost usage and expenditure.
    - Predict the costs used in the future.
2.  Cost effective usage
    - Use database and RAM for storage.
    - Use number of pods for requests enough.
3.  Dynamic by demand
    - Dynamic resource capacity by traffic.

# 6. Compliance Alignment

1.  Region segment
    - Split by region.
2.  Infrastructure compliance
    - Data, Network infrastructure compliance.

# 7. Follow-up Questions

1. Requirements
   - What are the users ?
   - What the parts required read-heavy, write-heavy and both ?
   - What must be fast, which can be slow ?
   - What must never break ?
   - What must be consistency, what can be eventually consistency ?
2. Components Design
   - Client-Server design.
   - Architect
   - API Design.
   - Database Design.
   - Indexing
   - Caching.
   - Load balancing.
   - Sharding.
   - Replicating.
   - Queues.
   - Consistency Model.
   - Storage Object.
3. Trade-offs
   - What can improves ?
   - What can be faster and slower ?
   - What fails first under load ?
   - What complexity did I introduce ?
4. Think twice about system design
   - How the data stored ?
   - How do read scale ?
   - How do write scale ?
   - What happened in traffic spike ?
   - What happened when one components failed ?
   - Where is the bottleneck ?
5. Advanced concepts
   - Distributed system.
   - CAP theorem.
   - Consistency and Availability.
   - Leader-follower and multi-leader.
   - Partitioning strategies.
   - Rate limiting & Backpressure.
   - Idempotency & Retries.
   - Event-driven system.
   - Data pipelines.
   - Caching strategies.
   - Observability: Logging, Monitoring, Tracing.
6. Intention when design
   - Design for time: latency, retries, stale data.
   - Design for failures path, not just success cases.
   - Design for changes (new feature, growth).
7. Architecture Pillars
   - Reliability
   - Scalability
   - Observability
   - Security
   - Operation
