---
layout: post
title: Plan 2026 - People Skills, Problem Solving, Physical Daily Matter
date: 2026-01-04
categories: planning
---

Outlined below is the comprehensive growth plan for 2026.

# Objective 1: People Skills

- Understand other intention + archetypes
- **Trust moral + logical reasons: red flag is always invalid.**
- Verify assumption:
  - Find counter example

# Objective 2: Problem Solving

- Break the vague tasks to assumption
  - Flow 1: If X, next Y
  - Flow 2: If V, next W
- Verify assumption strictly
  - Find counter example.

# Objective 3: Dive deep System Design - Staff level

- Enhance: Reliability, Scalability, Security Design in Axon.
- Next Action: Once an idea is proposed, there must be action collaborated among teams.

# Objective 4: Using English Fluently

- Take IELTS exam for testing knowledge and ability in using English.
- Ability to talk with colleagues in Axon using English

# Objective 5: Practice Health, Keep fit, Fashion Style

- Overall the weight to 70kg - height 1m75.
- Fashion Style: Smart Casual.

# Objective 6: Reading Economic & Politic knowledge

- Understand politic strategy: Vietnam and Donald Trump and China.

# Objective 7: Physical skills: Table Manners, Cooking, Cleaning House, Taking Photo, Caring Girl

- Caring skills, Patient, Know-but-not-say skills
- Cooking and caring girl in table.
- Taking photo to make her happy.

# Objective 8: Strengthen DSA + Go global with Tiktok

- Solve DSA problem with template with 3 solutions.
- Solve System Design solutions with 6-7 steps solutions.
- Solve Behavior Interview with Intention focus and STAR method.

# Objective 9: Explore AI Agents knowledge

- Build RAG, AI Agents Application in Axon.
- Apply AI for making decision, entrepreneurs ideas.
