---
layout: post
title: Viết về thinking framework khi explore product, charming, make judgements
date: 2026-06-08
categories: planning
---

T viết về thinking framework khi explore product, charming, make judgements của t

# 1. Explore products

## 1.1. Current system (Collect Facts)

## 1.2. Proposed solution (What's your idea will help)

## 1.3. Stakeholder values and what need them to action

## 1.4. Risks

## 1.5. Action to do and timeline

# 2. How to become more charming

## 2.1. Charming: Let people feel they are valued when talk to you: listen and ask right questions (5W - 1H)

## 2.2. How you care about her problem and can provide her

## 2.3. Responsibility: Safe and do not far from her

# 3. How to make judgements

## 3.1. Believe your thinking framework

## 3.2. Trying my best about this work

## 3.3. Make judgements framework

- Judgement and success:

    - The role of risk

    - The role of luck

    - The role of timing

## 3.4. Myth

- No one can good judgements between all fields.

- CEO is good judgement with people, but not number. In contrast with CFO.

- Advantage: Find the best situation to show your skill.

## 3.5. Relevant knowledge and experience (Incompleted knowledge)

- **Relevant knowledge:** to the choice we make.

- **Experience:** shortcut thinking to get the decision.

- Context: current system.

## 3.6. Awareness

- Your thought + other thoughts.

- Your thought: mnt

- Alice thought: abc

- Bob thought: xyz

- Reason: Alice # Bob

- Read the room: perceptions of situations and people.

## 3.7. Trust

- Source from trust documents, or trusted people.

- Passive: We trust the supermarket to sell us food that won’t make us ill.

- Trust must be earned: how you trust colleagues, and how colleagues trust you.

- Do the source: is source of truth, or just others'comments.

## 3.8. Feelings and beliefs

- You will have Feelings and beliefs: aware it.

- Bias: we will bias to what information you have already read -> same things and bias.

- belief and feelings is different: and people trust their thinking framework.

## 3.9. Choice

- Alternative choices ?

- Deep analysis.

- Risk analysis.

- Trade-offs and reasons.

- Who is involved to make the choice ?

- What happened as a result

## 3.10. Delivery

- Idea is feasible ?

- What task own by your team.

- What task own by stakeholder.

- Timeline

