---
layout: post
title: Reflection 2025 - Gaining Knowledge, Admitting Self-biases, and Advancing in Coding & Career Growth
date: 2026-01-04
categories: planning
---

Reflecting on 2025, this year has been a transformative period focused on personal growth, professional development, and building meaningful relationships.

# Objective 1: Advanced Coding Interview

- Learning ability to code 1 problem with 3 solutions from Naive solution, Optimize Solution.
- Can be live code with your idea.
- Have templates for solving System Design and Behavior Interview with intention.

# Objective 2: Framework Thinking

- Apply framework for thinking and actioning: brainstorm ideas, verify assumption and plan next steps using second-order thinking.
- Identify biases on cognitive biases of human, prevent myself from anti-social and consistently break the rules.
- Ability to know sometime myself is biases, and other too ⇒ verify assumption every time with counter examples.

# Objective 3: Friends & Relationships

- Value people who have authentic and sincere intention with me.
- Separate or Detox to solve negative feelings from the toxic behaviors, toxic means toxic not any good things from my ideal expectations: Colleagues, Mother, Friends, Strangers, Ex-Lover.

# Objective 4: Reach 2000 USD job in a Global High-tech company

- First step to move to another status in career and social status.
- Help me to remove the burden of not-enough for career, or stuck in constraint in hierarchy rules in my office ⇒ so that I will have time to boost another fields in my life.

# Objective 5: Build a Writing and Reading habit cultures

- Have habit of writing a notion or blog daily.
- Reading around 3 books/month in Kindle and take notes for knowledge and try to apply my gain knowledge to the world.

# Objective 6: Explore signature places in Saigon

- Explore signature places and experience in Saigon: Economic Tower Ward 1, Thao Dien Ward, An Phu Ward.
- Build a habit of learning new things by exploring sharing knowledge from others.

# Objective 7: Understand mind game in office and human intentions

- Anything go with intentions.
- Observe the things changed in daily from the big picture view ⇒ analyze the business strategy and resource human management strategy to prepare your self better.
- Do not try to confront excessively with your leader =))) Of course, you always lose or can not promoted to better opportunities. Because any leaders have fears or the need to be validated by their power, intelligent, delivered value for business =)) so be aligned your goals with their goals.
- You should have a note to take notes what project you will do, what lessons you have learnt over a year ⇒ better for performance reviews.
- Do not too much align with anything ⇒ Raise your voice to protect yourself in your boundaries and permissions.
