---
layout: post
title: Life of a sadness adult
date: 2025-10-18
categories: mindset-psychology
---

# 1. Story

Hello readers, I am writing this blog when I have a little empty in life and also it makes me reflect about the the "solitude" feeling now, when I am knowing in next December 2025, I need to relocate to Ha Noi to pursue a job, I have to leave behind the 6-year familiar Saigonese,

I have passed a Associate Delivery Consultant at AWS, L4 level, with first started salary around 2500 USD/month and multiple opportunities to go to Singapore or Australia in next years.

I found the empty in my life because maybe when I have a free time, I spend it to learning DSA + System Design, now I feel empty to think about what a new life after I relocate to Ha Noi, maybe a new life, new relationships and I must find a lover to help me do not solitade in new places.

I recognized I can not stand in spare time, I must do something, usually learning in career. It is ok, but now I think I need to live happier, spend this time for exercising, socializing.

I need to allocate time to: dating (must be happiest), saving (1500 USD/month)

Aiming: In the third year, it must be 3000 USD/month or 5000 USD/month or relocate to Singapore.

# 2. Lesson learned

- Manager Skills: About the decision that impact to your life, always have a plan for this.

- Reflect each 2-weeks to align with your goals, bias for changes.

- Always have fallback decision, have back-up plans for anything.

# 3. Analyze

## 3.1. Whether you should move out Zalopay, or continue working here ?

- At the heart, the leaving out Zalopay is just a sooner or later decision => must move after 2-year working.

- Something lost: relationships (maybe not strong as a think), friends (important), software engineer title (safe title), safe zone at HCMC.

## 3.2. Should you go for Delivery Consultant at AWS, or SDE jobs at HCMC ?

- I want to become Solution Architect for long-term, I want to communicate with clients and learn business domains in a global company, and multiple opportunities to move to Singapore and understand the world.

=> This jobs are matched with me.

- I agree to quit a job that I do not like, although it is a job that I am good at => To find the jobs that match with my preferences.

- A salary is good for my 24 - 25th age, around 2500 - 3000 USD/month => I can save about 1 billion per year for family.

# 4. Career Break

- Because I can not find opportunities to grower at Zalopay, and I want to have cloud skills to work in global company.

=> So, I choose career break and move to Ha noi for new environment, a new vacation and journey with cloud skills.

- New business domain: I go to work with cloud products, learning knowledge about Cloud for my future career.
