---
layout: post
title: How to train your brain to dragon - Problem Solving - A Crucial Skill for Another Skills
date: 2025-10-27
categories: mindset-psychology
---

A skill that changes yourself and master inteligence in your thinking.

# 1. How I train my brain in Coding Interview and System Design

- Practice yourself to solve 1 problem coding interview with 3 - 6 solutions, compare and optimized it to the most.

- Practice yourself design a system for 1 functional requirements with 3 solutions, compare the trade-offs between solutions.

=> Solve 1 problem with N solutions.

# 2. Problem Solving Ability

- When you are young, maybe we need to broad learning to many new things in the world => When we are young, we solve N problems. But when you are older, you do not solve N problems anymore => You solve 1 problem, 1 problem that matter for all.

- I am a user that need multiple ways to think about variable different things, e.g. technology, economic, psychology, relationships,... => So to enrich knowledge and scenarios, previous I find N problems to solve with multiple skills and broaden knowledge (broad and concept learning). 

- But after when I come up with to solve only 1 problem in Coding Interview and System Design, I find Senior level should solve 1 problem with 6 solutions and compare it

=> So the logic in me change from N - 1 (n problems - 1 solution) to 1 -> N (1 problem - N solutions). And of course combine all we can have N - N (N solutions - N problems) for mastermind thinking. 


# 3. Why we can not make decision ?

- Easily to talk, because we want to find 1 SOLUTION that matched for alls, binary thinking about "YES/NO", YES is everything and NO is nothing. 

- To be honest, almost normal and young people in social make decision based on feeling and validation that they are valued or right. And human brain prefer "SHORTCUT THINKING" to save effort and energy -> lazy mechanism in human brain. 

- But to be honest, about anything problems happened in your life, e.g. emotional from family, love, work,... You need to make a less stressful and smart decision to live healthier.

=> Try to solve it in many ways and you will be more inteligent, combine variable thinking (N problems - 1 solution) and deep thinking (1 problem - N solutions) => Mastermind (N problems -> N solutions).

Notes: Practice 1 problem - N solutions and dive deep until mastermind.