---
layout: post
title: Framework Thinking - The template for structured dive deep without ambigious
date: 2025-11-02
categories: mindset-psychology
---

How to brainstorm effectively, structured your thinking and brainstorm in the right may.

# 1. Find the framework first - Framework thinking - Structured template before dive deeping.

1. Find the framework that stick to your situation: Technical Development, Quality Control, Business Development.

2. Dive deep analyze the metrics in this fields, use Ti here to transform 1 problem into N situations.

# 2. Acknowledge that there are some mis-understanding and edges, so do not depend on 1 framework.

1. Do not apply to trust 1 model for all everything => Combile N models to brainstorm everything.

# 3. Deal with human - the most inportant parts.

1. In the communincation way, find the common sense => Gain more information by humor and sympathy.

2. Bias in everyone idea: You should learn some psychology model like "Hiệu ứng chim mồi" to handle "feelings" problem of other people.

3. About leadership and management skills => Find the model, analyze all the edge cases of this fields to control it.

# 4. Personality views

- I am passionate about dive deeping analyzing anything (Ti user), but maybe I will need a framework to used first.

=> Structured helps we brainstorm in the right way, without purely random and might be we do not cover all.

- I do not depend on 1 mental frameworks, I am always brainstorm to understand all the edges of the problem => We can come up with N solutions to cover all of the edges.
