---
layout: post
title: Career Path - Love Thinking
date: 2025-10-26
categories: mindset-psychology
---

# 1. Career Path

## 1.1. Junior/Middle SE

- Just to implementation skills.

- Usually flex skill about Redis, Kafka, Database.

- Can not explain ideas clearly, lack of experience, only have knowledge and inteligence to implement but can not have presentation about product system design skill.

## 1.2. Senior SE

- Ability to coding interview and system design clearly, focus on problem-solving.

- Have template for discuss and dive deep edge cases of coding interview, have 2 - 3 brainstorm solutions for 1 problem, compare pros, cons.

- Ability to system design by use cases for functional requirements, long-term non-functional requirements.

- Thinking about handling failures, bottlenecks, scaling opportunities for system design.

## 1.3. Tech Lead/Manager

- More focus on management interview, e.g. how to manage a large team, a small team.

- Ask some questions for how to deliver and management, how to motivate and grow team members.

- Focus on internal relationships, external relationship, most time focus on people and management skills but not technical skills.

# 2. Love Thinking

## 2.1. Time-range commitment

- As company, we can not work for a company for entire life.

- Love is the same, because feeling is just about time-range, it will ends after a time. So we should not find the perfect partner from start, we can try to commit but in time-range commitment.

- Date to marry is a dream, but fact time-range commitment and extend when match is smarter strategy, else you can find another people more suitable => The important is matched and understand yourself.
