---
layout: post
title: How to become a Engineer Manager ?
date: 2025-11-23
categories: mindset-psychology
---

Here is some not for How to become a Engineer Manager ?

1. Why you change the company ?
    1. Introduction
        - Say project that matched with the compnay
        - If you said you manage a team with 15 members, but they find people manage 5 people → Cause mismatch
        - Try to find the match when they introduce company
    2. Why you change the job
        - Good answer 1: Always worked in mature and stabilized systems, want to build something from scratch.
        - Worst answer 2: I do not want to context-switching in projects ⇒ If the company is start-up, they will lose-lose situation.
        - Performance Gap: Move from big company to smaller organization
        - Want to fast-paced start-up environment: Move from big company to start-up.
        - Lay-off: Normal in big tech company like Amazon, Google,… but not small company.
    3. Happy to go
        - If you show that you can grow and thrive in this environment ⇒ win-win solution.
    4. Not happy but go
        - Maybe question about performance issues.
        - Talk
            - Step 1: Your win and achievements.
            - Step 2: Share about primary reason: opinition, do not match with team,…
            - Step 3: How you are great match for the current role.
    5. Inverted, Always inverted
        - If another people tell you the story, do you trust it ?
    6. Prepare story bank
        - Hiring and form team.
        - Leadership style: people, product, technical, execution
        - Critical feedback
        - Conflict mangement
        - Project execution
        - High-performance team
        - Change management
        
        ⇒ Prepare so that you can show your work
        
    7. Team structure + Vision and KPI
        - Describe the structure of the team.
        - Because a team member may leave ⇒ need to build structure from scratch today.
        - Focus on the vision of the team.
    8. Do you have any questions ?
        - Ask question to show your interest
        - Ask about the challenges in the domain ?
        - Ask about the responsibilities ?
2. From “Hire” to “Strong Hire”
    1. Bring values
        - People
            - Team
            - Boss
            - Stakeholder
            - Customer
        - Company
            - Business impact: business goals.
            - Product KPIs
        - Technical
            - Architecture, scalability, performance, availability
            - Throughput (RPS), Latency, Bottleneck, Storage.
        - Execution
    2. Proactive but not reactive
        - Weekness + How to improve for better
    3. Do not do something
        - Bad-mouthing your boss, organization
        - Show lack of empathy.
        - Show lack of challenging work in current role.
        - Over individuals > team
    4. Some roles
        - Architect: technical depth and system design skills.
        - EM: collaborate skills + maintain high-performance team.
        - PM: work with cross-functional, skateholders, align engineer with business need.
    5. Job of EM
        - Project execution (viennd): plan, execute and deliver complex tasks.
        - Project eadership (anhnd3): mentor, grow and build high-performance team
    6. Organization style
        - Start-up: focus on execution and hands-on ability.
        - Large Enterprises: mentor, grow, build high-peforming teams while aligning with organizational processes and culture.
        - Traffic in high scale (50k+ rps): distributed system, performance optimization, reliability engineering.
        - B2B company: focus on code quality and how to mange customer needs.
        - Security company: focus on security-first mindset to fostering the culture of secure practices.
3. What is your leadership style ?
    1. People leadership:
        - How you add value for people around you: internal team, skateholders.
        - Example: 1-1 meeting with all members to understand where they are, where they want to go.
    2. Business impact
        - Strategic thinking for business
        - Reach organization goals.
        - Example: Align team vision with company goals.
    3. Technical excellence
        - System Design, clarify the unknown and failures.
        - Example: Feature delivery (80%), Tech debt reduction (20%).
    4. Execution excellence
        - Predictablity
        - Quality
        - Example: Add checkpoint to check the progress
4. Strengths and weaknesses
    1. Start-up:
        - Bias for action
        - Adaptability
    2. Large organization:
        - People leadership
        - Scaling team
        - Cross-collaboration.
    3. Weaknesses
        - Improve communication
            - Need to clarify and transparency.
            - Two-way communication.
        - Enhance career development opportuinites
            - Salary
            - Growth in career: increase title, allow members to collaborate with senior members from other team to learn.
        - Cross-team collaboration and alignment
    4. What do you to build the team
        - Phase 1 (Understanding):
            - Build relationship with skateholders and internal team.
            - Understand company vision, goals and priorities.
            - Understand team KPIs and how it meet with business goals.
            - Dive deep in technical stack.
        - Phase 2 (Contributing):
            - Where I can add value and priority ?
            - Build trust and momentum with peers and team.
            - Develop mid and long-term improvements
        - Phase 3 (execution)
            - Contributing in business and technical goals.
            - Implement improvements in process, and team practices.
            - Align with team priority and deliver the visible impact.
5. Hiring Framework
    1. Strategy
        - Vision: long-term goals and objectives.
        - Roadmap: Vision + Timeline + Metric
    2. Team needs
        - Skills: the technical and soft skills needed.
        - Diversity: a team with multiple backgrounds, personalities ⇒ collaborate to reach the goal.
        - Complexity: The difficulty of the project ⇒ scale of the team will be working on.
        - Culture fit: collaborate, communicate and adapability in a team.
    3. Contrains:
        - Team size
        - Budget
        - Time-line
    4. Process
        - Sourcing: Finding the qualified candidate.
        - Evaluation: Method to test the candidate: interviews, technical assessments, reviews.
        - Onboarding: check whether new hires into a team.
6. Team Framework
    1. Pyramid Structure
        - Pros: cost effective, junior can learn and grow.
        - Cons: mentor overhead.
    2. Diamond Structure
        - Pros: Balance the delivery experience.
        - Higher cost but lack innovation limits.
    3. T-shape structure
        - Pros: Specialised and Innovative projects.
        - Cons: Bottleneck for senior path, higher costs.
    4. Flat structure
        - Pros: Smaller teams or start-ups.
        - Cons: Role ambiguity.
7. Example
    - Data gathering
    - Hiring framework
    - Form team
    - Feedback to update the behaviour interview.
8. How to answer the interview
    - Must know what they want to hear.
    - Project → Hiring Strategy → Long-term
9. People Leadership
    - Conflict: Find solution for both 2 people, pros and cons trade-offs for must-have logic.
    - Feedback: Always listen from 2 sides of people.
    - Have difficulty: Not blame, find action to solve it.
    - Difficult People: Coach them to mentoring roles, to share experience for others to build trust. (nhu trị bằng cương, cương trị bằng nhu)
10. Performance Management
    - Grow talented member to senior: To keep them.
    - Reward strong performers
11. Skateholder Management
    - Stakeholder map: Think this a system design each department of the company ⇒ Clarify scope by domain-driven.
    - Conflict between stakeholders: Balance all, or depend on the strongest stakeholder.
    - Stakeholders disagree with you: find common ground, deal to match the delivery.
    - How to keep track timeline skateholders: weekly meeting (1 hình thức dí)
    - Unrealistic stakeholders: chia phe thôi, find people with strong influencer and high interest to support you.
12. Project execution
    - Example
        - Must-have: English, DSA, Structure answer.
        - Should Have: Golang concurrency, Java concurrency, Redis, Kafka, MySQL dive deep.
        - Could have: Dating and relationships.
        - Won’t have
    - Narrow the scopes for win-win and motivate employee ?
        - Find anyway to reduce cost cut.
        - Increase bandwidth: motivate + hiring.
        - Stakeholder management: align win-win scope or choose the most value stakeholder.
    - Technical dive deep in system design ?
        - Writes: MySQL + Kafka Stream
        - Reads: Cache
        - Concurrency: Using goroutines and threads in Golang and Java.
        - Scalability: Kubernetes scales to 100 pods.
    - Do not blame, find the root cause to solve it.
    - Project trade-offs, long-terms and short-terms
        - Short-term first + strict in code structure and convention ⇒ logging error.
        - Must long-term later.
13. Engineering Excellent
    - Use metrics to monitor each product: Mean time to recovery, error rates,…
    - Business impact: metrics like user acquisition, transaction valume, revenue.
    - Delivery & Efficiency: how to operate and devlier a product.
    - Quality: Bugs count, Mean time to repair.
    - Team satisfaction: conduct 1-1 meeting.
14. Diversity, Equality and Inclusion
    - Focus on: Inclusion
    - Diversity:
        - Different age, gender
        - Understand the different needs of talent pool.
    - Equity:
        - Increase engagement score.
    - Inclusion (cảm giác được thuộc về)
        - Feel they are welcomed and appreciated.