---
layout: post
title: Made simple
date: 2025-11-10
categories: mindset-psychology
---

"The definition of genius is taking the complex and making it simple" - Albert Einstein

# 1. Explaination

- We are living in the world that information matters and brings benefits from: money, investment, dating, relationships, technical, mangement,.. A lot of new concepts and data generated everyday => People who understands more knowledge matters will be "wealthy".

- For example: about GPT-5, Generative AI, AI Agents, Stock in NVDIA or AWS is increasing ?, Finding a pick-up tips for dating, How to answer the negotiation and answer the reason to move new company ?, How to become a leader and can convince or manipulate others to do my idea ?, How to ensure my decision is right ?

- Anyone of us will have some problems, some goals we want to achieve for life.

=> The way of learning is that, you brainstorm more information in all the edges of the problems => Turn to made easy to explain for each others, but keep it simple but not simpler.

=> Some ways:

- You can find some "made easy" book in Amazon to learn new concepts for concept learning => Build the framework first for living.

- But when to real doing something practice, please dive deeper as much as possible.

# 2. Bottleneck in System Design

- The framework that I used for system design is finding the **bottleneck** and **scaling opportunities** for each design.

- But when reading the books, I recognize that we only can "measure" it to find the bottleneck, but if are intelligence and experience, you may guess "right or wrong".

- Do not guess bottleneck: measure it, “Users spend 90% of their total wait time on the ‘payment processing’ step.” — a clear, dominant delay is your bottleneck ⇒ Latency.

- Trace Dependencies: Tracing made sure you have a critical path ⇒ Must follow this path, it can not changed.

- Don't scale blind, fix + measure + repeat to the right threshold.

- The slow spot will move somewhere else ⇒ For example, scale the checkout faster ⇒ overwhelmed the coffee bar.
